💰 Professional Personal Finance Manager
This is a professional desktop application built using Python, SQLite, and the Tkinter framework, designed for managing personal finances, tracking income and expenses, and visualizing financial health over time.

The application is specifically optimized for a seamless experience on macOS (Mac mini, MacBook, etc.).

✨ Features
GUI Interface (Tkinter): A clean, modern, and responsive graphical user interface for easy input and navigation.

Persistent Data Storage (SQLite): All transaction data is securely stored locally in a finance_data.db file, ensuring data persists between sessions.

Financial Summary & Statistics (NEW!):

Key Metrics: Real-time display of Net Worth (Total Income - Total Expenses), Total Income, and Total Expenses.

Data Filtering (NEW!):

Filter Controls: Easily filter the displayed transactions and charts by Date Range (YYYY-MM-DD) and Transaction Type (Income/Expense/All).

Real-Time Visualization (Matplotlib/Pandas):

Cumulative Balance Chart: Track your running balance trend over time, adjusted by active filters.

Category Summary: Bar charts showing a breakdown of top income and expense categories.

Transaction Management: Easily add new transactions (Income or Expense), select categories, and delete existing records.

macOS Integration: Includes minor tweaks to ensure proper application naming in the macOS menu bar.

🚀 Getting Started
Prerequisites
To run this application, you need Python 3 installed on your system, along with the following libraries.

Python 3 (3.7+ recommended)

Tkinter (Usually included with standard Python installations)

SQLite3 (Usually included with standard Python installations)

Pandas

Matplotlib

Installation (Dependencies)
Install the required Python libraries using pip:

pip install pandas matplotlib

Running the Application
Save the provided Python file as finance_manager.py.

Run the script directly from your Terminal:

python3 finance_manager.py

💻 Building a Standalone macOS App
To convert the Python script into a self-contained, double-clickable application bundle (.app) for macOS, you can use PyInstaller. This removes the need to run the script via the Terminal every time.

1. Install PyInstaller
pip install pyinstaller

2. Build the App
Run the following command in your terminal from the directory containing finance_manager.py:

pyinstaller --onefile --windowed --name "Finance Manager" finance_manager.py

3. Locate the Application
A new directory named dist will be created. Inside it, you will find the standalone application bundle: Finance Manager.app.

You can move this file to your macOS Applications folder and launch it just like any other native application.
